Database  :  organized collection of data, stored and retrived from a remote computer system

Database management system :  DBMS is software responsible for creation updation deletion and management of data.

RDBMS  :  relational database management system . stores data in form of collections of tables and relation defined as the common fields

Sql  :  structured query language. language for relational management systems.

table  :  organized collection of data stored in the form of rows and columns.

fields  :   The columns in a table are called fields while the rows can be referred to as records.

Constraints  :  
  1.  NOT NULL  :  Restricts NULL value from being inserted into a column.
  2.  CHECK   :  Verifies that all values in a field satisfy a condition.
  3.  DEFAULT : Automatically assigns a default value if no value has been specified for the field.
  4.  UNIQUE : Ensures unique values to be inserted into the field.
  5.  INDEX : Indexes a field providing faster retrieval of records
  6.  PRIMARY KEY : Uniquely identifies each record in a table.
  7.  FORENIGN KEY : Ensures referential integrity for a record in another table.

Primary key :  uniquely identifies each row in a table. 
Unique : constraint ensures that all values in a column are different. 
Foreign Key  :  comprises of single or collection of fields in a table that essentially refers to the PRIMARY KEY in another table

Joins : used to combine records (rows) from two or more tables in a SQL database based on a related column between the two.

Types of joins :  
  1. inner join: Retrieves records that have matching values in both tables involved in the join. This is the widely used join for queries.
  2.  left join:  Retrieves all the records/rows from the left and the matched records/rows from the right table.
  3.  right join:  Retrieves all the records/rows from the right and the matched records/rows from the left table.
  4.  full join:  Retrieves all the records where there is a match in either the left or right table.
  5. self join:   case of regular join where a table is joined to itself based on some relation between its own column(s)
  6.  cross join:  cartesian product of the two tables included in the join.

Index :  data structure that provides a quick lookup of data in a column or columns of a table.

Type of indexes:  
1.  Unique  :   indexes that help maintain data integrity by ensuring that no two rows of data in a table have identical key values.
2.  Non-unique  :  used solely to improve query performance by maintaining a sorted order of data values that are used frequently.
3.  Clustered  :  indexes whose order of the rows in the database corresponds to the order of the rows in the index. 
4.  Non clustered  :  creates a separate entity within the table which references the original table.


Clusted vs non clustered:
1. clustered indexes are indexes whose order of the rows in the database corresponds to the order of the rows in the index. This is why only one clustered index can exist in a given table, whereas, multiple non-clustered indexes can exist in the table.
index modifies the way records are stored in a database based on the indexed column. A non-clustered index creates a separate entity within the table which references the original table.
Clustered index is used for easy and speedy retrieval of data from the database, whereas, fetching records from the non-clustered index is relatively slower.
In SQL, a table can have a single clustered index whereas it can have multiple non-clustered indexe

Data Integrity : is assurance of accuracy and consistency of data over its entire life-cycle and is a critical aspect of the design, implementation, and usage of any system which stores, processes, or retrieves data.

query : request for data or information from a database table or combination of tables.

sub query: query within another query, also known as a nested query or inner query. It is used to restrict or enhance the data to be queried by the main query, thus restricting or enhancing the output of the main query respectively. 

sub query types :
  1. correlated : not considered an independent query
  2. non correleated query : independent query

Select : used to select data from a database. The data returned is stored in a result table, called the result-set.

where : used to filter records that are necessary, based on specific conditions.

order by: used to sort the records based on some field(s) in ascending (ASC) or descending order (DESC).

group by : used to group records with identical data and can be used in conjunction with some aggregation functions to produce summarized results from the database.

having : used to filter records in combination with the GROUP BY clause. It is different from WHERE, since the WHERE clause cannot filter aggregated records.

union : combines and returns the result-set retrieved by two or more SELECT statements.

union all : Combines the result from the multiple tables and returns all the records into a single result set.

minus : used to remove duplicates from the result-set obtained by the second SELECT query from the result-set obtained by the first SELECT query and then return the filtered results from the first.

intersect : ombines the result-set fetched by the two SELECT statements where records from one match the other and then returns this intersection of result-se.
